---
id: 1154
title: What purpose did we have for doing this?
date: 2013-03-11T04:43:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://chinashipweb.com/?p=1154
permalink: /2013/03/11/what-purpose-did-we-have-for-doing-this/
categories:
  - General
---
The majority of human beings are lost in the waves and turmoil of life. They live aimless lives like automatons, or like those vegetating in a comatose state. Their actions are automatic and reactive with very little conscious direction. Thus they do not participate or are desire-less in the acceleration of their personal evolution. They are dependent upon &#8220;authority&#8221; figures that promise &#8220;the easy way&#8221; for their personal well-being. They accept all input coming from these authorities without first screening them with the rational mind. Beliefs and dogmas are accepted over facts and truths. This is subconscious conditioning or brain-washing and it de-empowers an individual. It is rather difficult for a person under such a condition to be aware of what is actually occurring to him. When faced with the truth these individuals get overly-defensive and would do anything in their power to stifle truth by destroying its promulgators. These individuals become fanatics and are often a danger to themselves and to society.

The subconscious mind seems to be a strong influence in most people. This subconscious preponderance, or the mind functioning in this particular mode whereby it is controlled by subconscious impulses is identified as &#8220;the bicameral mind&#8221; by Dr. Julian Jaynes in his book, &#8220;The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind.&#8221;

Spiritually, it is the conscious mind that has to be in control and the director of one&#8217;s life and not be enslaved by negative subconscious urges. Our conscious mind must, however, be attuned with the super consciousness in order to acquire guidance and give creative and productive directions to the lower mind. The bicameral mind, or the subconscious mind is a terrible master but an excellent servant. The function of the subconscious mind is to take directions and orders from the conscious mind and to carry-out tasks that Nature has programmed into it. If these directions are not given by the conscious mind, then the sub-consciousness will take its orders from external sources, whether these sources be subliminally or telepathically given by other human beings or astral agencies. By letting this occur we allow ourselves to be vulnerable, manipulated, and controlled. As a result we become dependent upon the authority figures in the field of religion, politics, education and many others for our spiritual and secular well-being. This is giving our power, energy and funds away to others. Metaphysics teaches us how to be a master of life and not to be mastered by others who are only seeking self-aggrandizement and self-glory. We can cite one instance in which propaganda in the field of medicine tells us that a substance or a product is beneficial to our health, however, in reality offers us no real value whatsoever. We believe in authority figures for they are supposed to be the &#8220;experts.&#8221;

The mind plays an important role in one&#8217;s life. With our mind we produce thoughts that either enslave us to a state of inertia and retrogression or to a state of mortal freedom and spiritual progression. Occult, the mind can either be the slayer of the Real or the liberator from the false. The former condition causes stagnation in our evolution whereas the latter releases us from the state of mortality and mediocrity. We are meant to be gods&#8211;Holy Scriptures have emphasized this again and again. This is where our evolution is heading. By being gods we enter the Kingdom of Heaven&#8211;this is where the gods dwell, however, this should be understood figuratively, for heaven and hell are not places but certain states of consciousness and awareness. Transforming ourselves into gods, or being perfect human beings are not mere idealistic dreams as some people would think. Many have reached this state and we can read about them in literature&#8211;in the so-called myths and legends of every culture. Only recently, relatively speaking, did knowledge concerning them spread all over the world in Occult, Theosophical and New Age literature. More and more people have come to realize the existence of these super-beings called Masters and Adepts, and our innate potential to attaining similar states.

One could well be skeptical concerning the existence of the Masters but some careful thought would prove that these perfect human beings must exist. For instance, look around us. Do we not sometimes come across someone who is a little more noble, more pure, more wise, more loving than others? And on the other side of the coin, do we not also come across persons who are more vile, lowly, foolish, crude, and uncouth? If some appear more perfect than others, is it not possible that there are those who are even higher on the scale of perfection? In our minds it is unthinkable to deny that this is not so.

What causes one person to be more perfect than another? Certainly it is related to the evolutionary process but why does Nature&#8217;s evolutionary processes cause one person to far outstrip another? It is because some are not awakened as to their inner potential, or disbelief the truth of their divine being, and thus will not do anything to unfold it.

Some people live as though they would physically live forever, this can be seen by the way they accumulate and pile up their earthly treasures without the awareness that nothing is permanent and that death as a rule is inevitable. Although it is known, we often forget that everything will be given up at the time of death and that we take nothing along with us but what we are and what we have spiritually become.

People are often obsessed with the idea that they can own things or other people. This is a fallacy that not many individuals are able or willing to admit and look into. People seek to be rich, to be famous, to be popular, to be immortalized in history books and in the minds of men . . . and in such a frantic search or desire the true purpose of life is lost tracked of. To the writer&#8217;s mind many of our concerns and preoccupations are irrational and out of skew or alignment with the evolutionary current. It is heart-breaking to see one&#8217;s soul brother in the depth of the mire without their conscious realization and their rejection of one&#8217;s offer for assistance. One&#8217;s hand may be extended for assistance, but if there is no plea or call for help, or if the hand is not grasped, then nothing can be done except to standby and wait&#8211;sometimes to wait for many world cycles. The desire to progress must come from within although seeds may be planted in the prepared soil and nurtured daily hoping that the seed would sprout and see the light.

When one is ready to make that quantum leap to a higher consciousness, to accelerate one&#8217;s evolution, and desire to get better acquainted with one&#8217;s essential nature, one would attract the attention of the spiritual guides of humanity. Some of these beings reside in the higher dimensions instead of the earth plane, but no matter where they are, the spiritual aspirant unconsciously sends a signal out to them and they respond by directing the aspirant to certain individuals, books, metaphysical organizations or schools. The aspirant is introduced to the basics of the spiritual path. The teachings that master guides have to impart constitute the direct path of soul-unfoldment.

After evolving from beast hood, humanity is now lingering a little too long in its present consciousness level, or evolutionary state. The many problems of humanity may be traced to the stagnation of its present consciousness. The improvement of humanity and life as a whole is dependent upon the individual. We should first work upon our own un-fold if we are to see beneficial permanent changes occurring in society. Manifesting a Utopian civilization requires the improvement of the quality of human consciousness. This condition would improve one&#8217;s genetic quality and metaphysically prevent the entry or embodiment of lower beings. Why? Because souls of a lower consciousness would have trouble running a complex physical organism. Metaphysics teaches the laws of spiritual-eugenics, and manifesting a spiritually-oriented, highly advanced technological race is one of its goals.

When lower beings no longer have the ability to incarnate in the human race, then there would no longer be any inharmonious condition on earth. There would no longer be any conflicts and wars. Love, peace, goodwill, and the brotherhood of men would be established as a living reality on Earth. This is not to say that beings of a lower consciousness will not evolve further. They would but at their own pace and in another planetary platform. This is essentially their soul